The List interface in Java extends the Collection interface and is part of the java.util package. It is used to store ordered collections where duplicates are allowed and elements can be accessed by their index.

-Maintains insertion order
-Allows duplicate elements
-Supports null elements (implementation dependent)
-Supports bidirectional traversal using ListIterator

Declaration of Java List Interface
public interface List<E> extends Collection<E> { }

To use a List, we must instantiate a class that implements it. Example classes that implement it are ArrayList and LinkedList

List<Type> list = new ArrayList<Type>();

The common implementation classes of the List interface are:

-ArrayList: It is implemented using resizable array, offers fast random access but slower insert/delete.

-LinkedList: It is implemented using Doubly-linked list, efficient for frequent insertions and deletions.

-Vector: It is implemented using Legacy synchronized dynamic array, thread-safe but slower.

-Stack: It is implemented using a LIFO (Last-In-First-Out) subclass of Vector for stack operations.


Methods of the List Interface
Methods             -           Description

add(int index, element) -   This method is used with Java List Interface to add an element at a particular index in the list. When a single parameter is passed, it simply adds the element at the end of the list.

addAll(int index, Collection collection)    -   This method is used with List Interface in Java to add all the elements in the given collection to the list. When a single parameter is passed, it adds all the elements of the given collection at the end of the list.

size()  -   This method is used with Java List Interface to return the size of the list.

clear() -   This method is used to remove all the elements in the list. However, the reference of the list created is still stored.

remove(int index)   -   This method removes an element from the specified index. It shifts subsequent elements(if any) to left and decreases their indexes by 1.

remove(element) -   This method is used with Java List Interface to remove the first occurrence of the given element in the list.

get(int index)  -   This method returns elements at the specified index.

set(int index, element) -   This method replaces elements at a given index with the new element. This function returns the element which was just replaced by a new element
.
indexOf(element)    -   This method returns the first occurrence of the given element or -1 if the element is not present in the list.

lastIndexOf(element)    -   This method returns the last occurrence of the given element or -1 if the element is not present in the list.

equals(element) -   This method is used with Java List Interface to compare the equality of the given element with the elements of the list.

hashCode()  -   This method is used with List Interface in Java to return the hashcode value of the given list.

isEmpty()       -This method is used with Java List Interface to check if the list is empty or not. It returns true if the list is empty, else false.

contains(element)   -   This method is used with List Interface in Java to check if the list contains the given element or not. It returns true if the list contains the element.

containsAll(Collection collection)  -   This method is used with Java List Interface to check if the list contains all the collection of elements.

sort(Comparator comp)   -	This method is used with List Interface in Java to sort the elements of the list on the basis of the given comparator.

